now we're going to show screen printing
water-based white we carry two different
types of water-based why would carry a
transparent white use for color matching
and also can be used as to under bass or
white on a lighter garment and then we
also carry a more opaque white it's the
301 W white that is a lot thicker more
robust and covers very well on dark
garments the other thing we're going to
show is the use of water-based ink with
the standard plastisol emulsion you see
this emulsion is pink it's just the
standard DXP duo cure emulsion and we're
going to print some white ink through it
to show you their adverse effects that
water-based ink can have on the emulsion
let's load the screen up with ink as you
see this ink has a lot more pigment in
it so it's much thicker than your other
RC colors you do want more ink on your
screen than your standard plastisol once
loaded you always want to make sure to
cap your ink and clean your goob scoop
because we're printing white ink we are
going to need a flash dryer to print
flash and then print again optimally you
want to heat your palettes up to about
140 degrees before you start printing so
as you print the shirt actually is a
little warm and it retains the ink it
starts to cure the ain't before you can
put it underneath the flash dryer when
printing multiple color water-based
images sometimes you can actually just
print wet on wet by just heating your
palettes up to 140 degrees let's go
ahead and warm this palette up with
white ink it is much thicker and has
much more of a consistency like
plastisol than your other water-based
colors you want to flood the screen and
go to printing well drive the ink into
the shirt first remember to always back
flood your screen you can see white ink
after one pass let's flash it
depending on what type of flash dryer
you have water-based ink can flash
between 15-20 seconds maybe a little bit
longer if you don't have a forced-air
flash dryer and maybe a little bit lower
if you have a forced-air flash with this
flash dryer we're set at 10 seconds
right now just a little bit longer it's
not quite all the way heated up it
should be tacky but you shouldn't have
any ink come up on your finger
perfect let's print again always back
flood your screen with enough angle on
your screen image so you can't see the
image area and there you have it a nice
bright water-based ink on a black shirt
using the 301 white opaque series of ink
you want to be very careful when you're
carrying white ink keep in mind you're
putting more ink on the garment and
white tends to reflect heat instead of
absorbing it we want to hear definitely
for the recommended amount of time which
is about three minutes at 300 degrees
once cured your ink should have good
stretch ability and should last just as
long as plastisol ink on the shirt
you'll notice with the white ink and
especially the opaque white ink because
it has a lot more pigment on it and it's
thicker ink meant to show up on dark
garments that it will dry up a lot
faster in your screen this has probably
been sitting here 5-10 minutes even
though the screens pre flooded the ink
is already starting to congeal on the
screen itself so I'll show you what it's
going to look like now that it's clogged
the screen up a little bit and there's
one print now what we need to do to
clean it out is the same way we clean
the other water-based ink out is just
run it through a couple times we want to
get it work together kind of mixed back
in wet in the ink up a little bit just
kind of force through that mesh make
sure you have enough off contact in
order to let that ink rest on the
garment itself one or two more times in
the corner over here and if it's stuck
pretty much cleaned out except for that
corner right there so now what we need
to do is we need to scrape as much ink
out as possible over the print and then
if needed we'll hit this with a little
water based screen opener a little bit
on both sides with just the area that we
need come in and take a paper towel you
don't want to contaminate the rest of
the ink with the opener otherwise it'll
change the consistency of it scrub on
both sides make sure you open that part
of the screen right back up depending on
how the rest of the ink on the screen
looks some of it you might want to save
still wet and pliable enough to work
with what's on the squeegee right now we
can probably save but what's left in the
screen all that dried-up ink we're going
to want to scrape out before we continue
printing finally before we again
printing we're going to want to load
brand new ink in the screen as well to
give us enough ink to work with when
printing white ink you want to be fairly
aggressive with it you don't want to
leave for extended periods of time
without cleaning the screen out because
it'll dry like we've seen here the last
thing we wanted to show with this screen
is what happens when you use a non
water-resistant emulsion we're using the
DX t plastisol emulsion on this and
though it's held up for a couple of
prints especially as we leave the ink
set in the screen it starts to eat away
at the edges of the emulsion this
emulsion is not meant to stand up to
water so the water in the ink actually
starts to adversely affect the emulsion
on the screen itself right now we'll see
how it prints and how it already
degrades the edge definition on the
design
we can already see right here right over
here right here that our edges aren't
crisp anymore in fact right there the
emulsion is actually let go enough for
ink to start showing through it so you
definitely want to use a water-resistant
emulsion have proper exposure when
you're printing with these inks